# dilemma
Ethical Dilemma
Pedagogical activity is rather specific, as unique children’s individuality requires respect, patience, and understanding in order to achieve any pedagogical results. According to NAEYC Code of Ethical Conduct, when one significant value opposes another, it produces ethical dilemma. As usual, the main reason of confrontation between a teacher and a student is misunderstanding. The same conflict can be treated from two different perspectives: “through the eyes of a teacher” and “through the eyes of a pupil”. That is why, it is very important to handle such situation in the way that will not harm the pupil.
In the case of Mary, first of all, it is better to clarify the situation with the teacher. Appealing to the Code, when a teacher is informed about potential possibility of neglecting or abusing a child, he or she must assist in order to avoid this situation. Mary needs to tell the teacher how the child reacted to his or her action and ask how the teacher sees that situation. The purpose of the conversation is not to offend the teacher, but to prevent the repetition of the conflict in the future. In my opinion, attracting the mass media to this conflict or humiliating the teacher can worsen the girl’s position and status in the class and cause teachers’ biased attitude. One of the principles of the Code is that a teacher has to give the family clear explanation of the own methods of teaching that are related to his or her ethical responsibilities.
To my mind, the right way in this situation is not to take revenge on the teacher, but to teach Isabella critically evaluate what is happening and make conclusions. Also, it would be better if Mary reminded the teacher of the prevalent principle of the Code, according to which a teacher should not practice any methods that can be emotionally damaging for a pupil. In other way, discrediting the school, Mary can lose an important instrument of influence on her daughter. Teacher is the most important person that affects the child’s education. That is why, cooperation but not the confrontation is extremely important for parents and teachers to provide good school experience for every child.
About the author: Tiff Fremont is a content writer and blogger, currently working with https://primeessays.com writing company. She delivers papers for all the students who have a lack of time to write their papers on their own.  
